Neque porro quisquam est qui dolorem (#2689)
foundry-rs/starknet-foundry: docs/src/projects/configuration.md

</details>
<br>

> ### Global configuration

Author: It seems to me that the composition as it is now is quite natural. Check the changes. I hope it will fit to you

Since version 0.34.0 `sncast` will use the global configuration to combine configuration from local configs.
Global configuration file is usual [`snfoundry.toml`](https://foundry-rs.github.io/starknet-foundry/appendix/snfoundry-toml.html), but placed in specific directory. 

#### Global Configuration File Location
The global configuration is stored in a specific location depending on the operating system:

- macOS/Linux : The global configuration file is located at `$HOME/.config/starknet-foundry/snfoundry.toml`
- Windows : The file can be found at `C:\Users\<user>\AppData\Roaming\starknet-foundry\snfoundry.toml`

> 📝 **Note**
> Global configuration file will be created automatically if it does not exist and contain predefined `default` profile.

#### Interaction between Local and Global profiles

Interaction between global and local config is based on the overriding mechanism, the local config will be used to override 
the global profile of the same name or in case it is not defined to override the default global profile.

> If `--profile` is not provided, the default profile from the local (if present) and global configuration will be used.

Reviewer: This needs to be written in simpler terms, so it's obvious what overrides what and in which cases.

</details>
<br>

> ### Global configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Global Configuration
```

> Global configuration file is usual [`snfoundry.toml`](https://foundry-rs.github.io/starknet-foundry/appendix/snfoundry-toml.html), 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Global configuration file is a [`snfoundry.toml`](https://foundry-rs.github.io/starknet-foundry/appendix/snfoundry-toml.html), 
```

which is a common storage for configurations to apply to multiple projects across various directories.
This file is stored in a predefined location and is used to store profiles that can be used from any location on your computer.

> #### Interaction between Local and Global profiles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Interaction Between Local and Global Profiles
```

> Global configuration file is usual [`snfoundry.toml`](https://foundry-rs.github.io/starknet-foundry/appendix/snfoundry-toml.html), 
> which is a common storage for configurations to apply to multiple projects across various directories.
> This file is stored in a predefined location and is managed differently compared to the local configuration file, which can be found in any parent directory.
> Profiles from global configurations are used to combine configuration with local profiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Global configuration file is usual [`snfoundry.toml`](https://foundry-rs.github.io/starknet-foundry/appendix/snfoundry-toml.html), 
which is a common storage for configurations to apply to multiple projects across various directories.
This file is stored in a predefined location and is used to store profiles that can be used from any location on your computer.
```

#### Interaction between Local and Global profiles

> Interaction between global and local config is based on the overriding mechanism

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Global config can be overridden by a local config.
```

> If both local and global profiles with the same name are present, local profile will be combined with global profile. That is for any setting defined both in global and local profiles, local setting will be used. For settings not defined in local profile, value from the global profile will be used instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If both local and global profiles with the same name are present, local profile will be combined with global profile. That is for any setting defined both in global and local profiles, local setting will be used. For settings not defined in local profile, values from the global profile will be used instead.
```

This same behavior applies for [default profiles](#default-profile) as well. A local default profile will override a global default profile.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think the information that CLI values will always override values from both configs should be added somewhere

> The local configuration will be used to override a global profile of the same name, or if no matching profile exists, it will override the global default profile. 
> If `--profile` is not explicitly specified, the default profiles from both the local and global configurations (if any is present) will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If both local and global profiles with the same name are present, local profile will be combined with global profile. That is for any setting defined both in global and local profiles, local setting will be used. For settings not defined in local profile, value from the global profile will be used instead.

This same behavior applies for default profiles as well. A local default profile will override a global default profile.
```

Reviewer: And link to a section above when talking about "default profiles".

#### Global Configuration File Location
The global configuration is stored in a specific location depending on the operating system:

- macOS/Linux : The global configuration file is located at `$HOME/.config/starknet-foundry/snfoundry.toml`
- Windows : The file can be found at `C:\Users\<user>\AppData\Roaming\starknet-foundry\snfoundry.toml`

> 📝 **Note**
> If missing, global configuration file will be created automatically on running any `sncast` command for the first time.

> ### Config interaction example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Config Interaction Example
```

```
root/
├── .config/
│   └── starknet-foundry/
│       └── snfoundry.toml -> A
└── /../../
        └── projects/
            ├── snfoundry.toml -> B
            └── cairo-projects/
                └── opus-magnum/
```

**Glossary:**

- **A:** Global configuration file containing the profiles [`default`](#default-profile) and [`testnet`](#defining-profiles-in-snfoundrytoml).
- **B:** Local configuration file containing the profiles `default` and `mainnet`.

> In any directory in the file system, a user can run the `sncast` command using the `default` and `testnet` profiles, 
> because they are located in global config. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In any directory in the file system, a user can run the `sncast` command using the `default` and `testnet` profiles, 
because they are defined in global config (file A). 

```

If no profiles are explicitly specified, the `default` profile from the global configuration file will be used.

> When running `sncast` from the `opus-magnum` directory, there is a configuration file in the parent directory (B). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running `sncast` from the `opus-magnum` directory, there is a configuration file in the parent directory (file B). 
```

This setup allows for the use of the following profiles: `default`, `testnet`, and `mainnet`. If the `mainnet` profile is specified, 

> the configuration from the local file will be used to override the global `default` profile, as the `mainnet` profile does not exist in the global configuration.

Reviewer: It's a nice example but maybe show a shortened contents of A and B instead?

Author: I've added links to proper sections, profile examples are defined above this section. I hope it will help avoid being redundant and also allow users to grab context. wdyt?

> ## Environmental variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Environmental Variables
```

</details>
<br>

### Global Configuration

Global configuration file is a [`snfoundry.toml`](https://foundry-rs.github.io/starknet-foundry/appendix/snfoundry-toml.html), 
which is a common storage for configurations to apply to multiple projects across various directories.
This file is stored in a predefined location and is used to store profiles that can be used from any location on your computer.

#### Interaction Between Local and Global Profiles

Global config can be overridden by a local config.

> If both local and global profiles with the same name are present, local profile will be combined with global profile. That is for any setting defined both in global and local profiles, local setting will be used. For settings not defined in local profile, values from the global profile will be used instead.

Reviewer 2: The logic of overriding global default profil should be explicitly mention here, not only in the example below
```suggestion
If both local and global profiles with the same name are present, local profile will be combined with global profile. For any setting defined in both profiles, the local setting will take precedence. For settings not defined in the local profile, values from the corresponding global profile will be used, or if not defined, values from the global default profile will be used instead.
```
